This great work, originally planned and prepared as a Silver Jubilee souvenir, could not but have been affected, root and branch, by the tragedy of the King's death within a few months of the Empire's enthusiastic demonstration of the place he occupied in its affections. What would have been a memento of the happiest period of a living career is now a memorial to the departed. Every line in this publication has been penned under the shadow of a vast sorrow at the loss of one who in every land was loved and revered as a good, gracious, and inspired monarch. The genuineness of India's affection for His late Majesty could not have been more convincingly illustrated than in the manner the happy occasion of his Silver Jubilee and the sad day of his funeral were observed throughout the country. A striking feature of the mourning demonstrations in India was the signal absence of any reference to politics, in refreshing contrast to a deflection in this respect on the part of at least two other members of the Empire. In this sentiment of attachment to the Crown—as distinct from the administration—lies, if properly utilized, the promise of a lasting comradeship between England and India. This momentous fact is by no means the least outstanding of the many fateful revelations, dealt with in this book, in connection with King George the Fifth's reign in relation to this country which lend emphasis to the supreme importance of our present publication both to England and India. The welcome extended to this great undertaking of ours from all parts of the country has encouraged us to do our best in respect of both matter and manner, and nothing has been left to be desired in typography and illustrations within the means available in India. In fact, no expense and pains have been spared to make this volume as comprehensive and complete as is consistent with the dignity and demand of a work of this kind. The size of the book, originally intended to be confined to five hundred pages, has far exceeded one thousand. Thanks to kind and earnest cooperation with our efforts in all quarters, the publication would appear, from all its outstanding aspects, to bear the impress of a work of no mean national importance and of permanent value. We tender our respects and thanks to the Government of India in the Foreign and Political Departments, A.G.G.'s (now Residents) of various Agencies in India, the Local Governments of all the Provinces, Presidents and Secretaries of Silver Jubilee Committees in British India and the States, and last but not least, to the Indian Princes and Chiefs, for the facilities obtained under their auspices for the issue of this publication. We are similarly grateful to our patrons and sympathizers all over the country, as well as to our customers, for their never-failing kindness and encouragement in regard to our labors. We have done all that is humanly possible to compile and publish a presentable pictorial and historical record of the life and times of the most beloved of Kings in history and of the great and important part played by India in the evolution of his memorable reign in its multifarious beneficence and progress, and in the appreciation of it in its proper import will be our best and highest reward.